posts/2020-05-24-hello-world.md, before:

---
title: 'Hello World 👋🏼'
excerpt: "I'm Hemerson Carlin, Full Stack Developer based in Dublin, Ireland. Welcome to my Blog!"
coverImageUrl: '/assets/blog/hello-world-cover.jpg'
date: '2020-05-24T00:00:00.000Z'
author:
  name: Hemerson Carlin
  imageUrl: '/hemerson-dark.jpg'
ogImage:
  url: '/assets/blog/hello-world-og.jpg'
previousSlugs: 'atomic-money-from-a-spreadsheet-to-a-side-project'
---

Welcome to my very first blog post on my personal website 🎉.

My name is Hemerson Carlin, also known as _mersocarlin_, and I'm a Software Engineer & Full Stack JavaScript Developer from Brazil based in Dublin, Ireland.

I'm also the creator of the <a href="https://atomicmoney.app/?utm_source=blog_mersocarlin&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=hello-world" target="_blank">Atomic Money App</a>: an expense tracker completely free so you can monitor your money with excellence. Feel free to check it out!

This is going to be my space to share the things I like, a couple of ideas and some of my work.

My main tech stack is TypeScript, NodeJS, MongoDB, GraphQL and ReactJS. 
In the early days of my career, Java and C# were my go-to for building everything, but I really like JS and it dominates most of my daily work now.
Expect to see a bunch of JavaScript stuff here.

<div class="blog-post-image">
  <img alt="Welcome aboard" src="/assets/blog/hello-world-welcome.jpg" style="width: 80%;" title="Welcome aboard">
</div>

## Past blog posts

I have already written blog posts in the past in other platforms (such as <a href="https://medium.com/@mersocarlin/debugging-net-core-inside-docker-container-on-a-mac-the-missing-tutorial-e85d7711dac9" target="_blank">here</a> and <a href="https://medium.com/@mersocarlin/continuous-delivery-with-bitbucket-pipelines-f15b829fda1b" target="_blank">here</a>) but never on a platform of my own.

In fact, I'm going to bring those to this blog just so I keep a better history (and control) of the things I've written.

Even though this is the actual "Hello World" blog post around here, this is definitely not my first time writing content.

## Future blog posts

I have a backlog of code snippets, interview tips, libs & repos of all sorts and some side projects I want to give some visibility.
I was never sure where I should keep them and I'm happy I've finally found the perfect place to share all that.

Stay tuned! They are coming <a href="https://github.com/mersocarlin/mersocarlin/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Blog+Post%22" target="_blank">very soon</a>.

## The current situation

I'm writing this blog post while the entire world is in the middle of <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/COVID-19_pandemic" target="_blank">COVID-19</a> and I'm sure this period will never be forgotten.

In case you are reading this post while we are all are in the midst of this crisys too, I trully hope that you, your family and loved ones are hanging tight and safe.

We'll get through this! It is just going to take a bit longer than what we have initially anticipated.

## The year of 2020

So far, 2020 has been a great year for me. I'm super proud I married my best friend and partner in life and we've just had our first son. I couldn't be more happier than that.

Work is also doing super great. I believe I'm a position I have always dreamed of and I can't complain about it either.

## What's next?

Fasten your seatbelts! This journey has just started and I'm happy you are all here.
I have some ideas for next blog posts and I'm going to try them as we go.

Of course, not everything is going to be perfect but I'll give my best!

Welcome again! Hope to see you soon!

Commit message:

Styled components css variables blog post (#133)
* Add blog post and assets

* Update previous slugs

posts/2020-05-24-hello-world.md, after:

---
title: 'Hello World 👋🏼'
excerpt: "I'm Hemerson Carlin, Full Stack Developer based in Dublin, Ireland. Welcome to my Blog!"
coverImageUrl: '/assets/blog/hello-world-cover.jpg'
date: '2020-05-24T00:00:00.000Z'
author:
  name: Hemerson Carlin
  imageUrl: '/hemerson-dark.jpg'
ogImage:
  url: '/assets/blog/hello-world-og.jpg'
previousSlugs: 'styled-components-and-css-variables,atomic-money-from-a-spreadsheet-to-a-side-project'
---

Welcome to my very first blog post on my personal website 🎉.

My name is Hemerson Carlin, also known as _mersocarlin_, and I'm a Software Engineer & Full Stack JavaScript Developer from Brazil based in Dublin, Ireland.

I'm also the creator of the <a href="https://atomicmoney.app/?utm_source=blog_mersocarlin&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=hello-world" target="_blank">Atomic Money App</a>: an expense tracker completely free so you can monitor your money with excellence. Feel free to check it out!

This is going to be my space to share the things I like, a couple of ideas and some of my work.

My main tech stack is TypeScript, NodeJS, MongoDB, GraphQL and ReactJS. 
In the early days of my career, Java and C# were my go-to for building everything, but I really like JS and it dominates most of my daily work now.
Expect to see a bunch of JavaScript stuff here.

<div class="blog-post-image">
  <img alt="Welcome aboard" src="/assets/blog/hello-world-welcome.jpg" style="width: 80%;" title="Welcome aboard">
</div>

## Past blog posts

I have already written blog posts in the past in other platforms (such as <a href="https://medium.com/@mersocarlin/debugging-net-core-inside-docker-container-on-a-mac-the-missing-tutorial-e85d7711dac9" target="_blank">here</a> and <a href="https://medium.com/@mersocarlin/continuous-delivery-with-bitbucket-pipelines-f15b829fda1b" target="_blank">here</a>) but never on a platform of my own.

In fact, I'm going to bring those to this blog just so I keep a better history (and control) of the things I've written.

Even though this is the actual "Hello World" blog post around here, this is definitely not my first time writing content.

## Future blog posts

I have a backlog of code snippets, interview tips, libs & repos of all sorts and some side projects I want to give some visibility.
I was never sure where I should keep them and I'm happy I've finally found the perfect place to share all that.

Stay tuned! They are coming <a href="https://github.com/mersocarlin/mersocarlin/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Blog+Post%22" target="_blank">very soon</a>.

## The current situation

I'm writing this blog post while the entire world is in the middle of <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/COVID-19_pandemic" target="_blank">COVID-19</a> and I'm sure this period will never be forgotten.

In case you are reading this post while we are all are in the midst of this crisys too, I trully hope that you, your family and loved ones are hanging tight and safe.

We'll get through this! It is just going to take a bit longer than what we have initially anticipated.

## The year of 2020

So far, 2020 has been a great year for me. I'm super proud I married my best friend and partner in life and we've just had our first son. I couldn't be more happier than that.

Work is also doing super great. I believe I'm a position I have always dreamed of and I can't complain about it either.

## What's next?

Fasten your seatbelts! This journey has just started and I'm happy you are all here.
I have some ideas for next blog posts and I'm going to try them as we go.

Of course, not everything is going to be perfect but I'll give my best!

Welcome again! Hope to see you soon!
